I build my body for me and it's always
been about improving my health and to
improve my quality of life I was
overweight I was asthmatic and I really
struggled fitting in at school Fitness
became something for me that allowed me
to break through that barrier and become
more confident
a body boarder to me is somebody who
builds their bodies to not only improve
their physical appearance to build more
muscle but it's definitely to improve
the quality of their life and what comes
with that is confidence
[Music]
and so further my body has become more
than just about how I look in the mirror
to become far more over the years of
looking inwards and understanding how
it's benefiting my life that it's become
something that I can continue for years
to come
[Music]
it always comes back to am I happy with
what I've achieved within myself the
effort I've put in and if I can say yes
then I have won regardless of what I've
done the fitness lifestyle the
bodybuilding lifestyle whatever you want
to call it to me it's become easier
because it's not a choice not something
I have to do it's not something I wake
up and I think about doing it just
happens because of the years of
repetition of waking up and doing the
things that make me feel good and it's
totally worth it like it's not even a
question because the reward is there
[Music]
the dedication build direction gujarati
food your life bodyboarding calm
it felt like I was drowning and I just I
couldn't keep my head above water
Fitness is actually what saved my life
[Music]
several years ago I found myself very
involved and obsessed with the way that
I looked in every aspect of my life
what's up friends my name is javi we're
at the bodybuilding.com gym I am a bit
of a crossfitter a national-level
weightlifter and a USA weightlifting
certified sports performance coach level
two this year the team lead as a trusted
coach and a crossfitter himself and an
all-around the rad human being which is
my invention today I came here today to
talk about squats and while we're here
talking to you about squats if any of
you have any ideas of what we should do
with our hands let us know it's awkward
okay we are on Facebook the youtubes in
the twitch if you have questions
concerns just think secrets you want to
tell us just write them on the keyboard
and we'll do our best answer them the
best we can so yeah please ask us
questions about but I'm sweating about
fitness in general nutrition and
bodybuilding anything you have a
question about we're gonna do our best
age them for you and let's get started I
have a sound does it sound working can
everyone hear me tips for keeping weight
loss weight up heels
Syrena okay we're gonna get there hang
on we're going to go through lots of
stuff about the squat we're going to get
to your questions in one second or
coming more than one second multiple
seconds but we're gonna get there okay
Dean are you ready yep okay Honda so
deeply to do most of his success facing
this way so you guys can see when his
body is doing and
we're the ghosts not touch him as we go
along should be good
first things first when it comes to
squat for most beginners and I
particularly see this issue in women is
when people squat the first word which
she squats the first thing she does is
she brings her knees forward look at
that does that look familiar
so what happens when you try to squat
with your knees forward that puts a lot
of tension here but you can't use your
not using your huge boobs your butt at
all really you can sit back up it's all
quads in the bodybuilding world and some
of this you can call this a squat
aptly named I don't suggest using that
if you're learning how to do a proper
back squat or really any other squat
variation the the best way to do to
learn how to do the squat movement at
all is called a hip hinge and this means
you push your hips and butt backwards
like these doing so see how his first
movement is back not forward if you have
your hips back you can do it's much much
easier to keep your weight in your heels
it's much much easier to have your
weight evenly distributed it's much less
likely that you're gonna come up on your
toes much better overall
[Music]
Wow Harley Reid asks what's the best to
do squats what Smith Machine barbell or
dumbbell Harley that's a great question
the answer is it depends like usual I
don't like the smith machine because
that makes you sit in a very awkward
position because that barbell is on in a
fixed plane I would much prefer that you
do a just straight full out regular
barbell and we'll talk about the reasons
why because you can play where the
barbell sits on your back a little bit
that Barbeau and move better over your
center of mass which on the Smith
machine does it do very well and
dumbbell you can definitely use a
dumbbell if you want or dumbbells if you
want to totally depends on your goals I
mean as far as like leg growth I would
say use a regular barbell for me to well
as well how many days a week should you
squat if I were Cory Gregory I would
tell you to squat everyday all of this
box every day honestly that depends
intern
I'm so sorry most of my answers sir
everyone is going to be it depends
depends on your goal I mean you can
technically SWAT every day if you want
to your fury few if your legs are a
little bitty leg then you want to put
some meat on them eat a lot of food and
do a lot of spots if you're working for
like if you want to get on a power
lifting platform and you want to squat
with that I would I would program your
spots differently probably don't need
that much volume you want to work for
weight not volume even that's its name
sometimes for a beginner if you're a
beginner and I would say twice a week to
start if you really like and then you
can go up to three times a week if you
like there's really no like right or
wrong to that it completely depends on
what you want to do for your legs and
why you do squats in the first place
Serena Shaw asks deeper squats are good
comment yes answer is it depends on your
ability
you're built on your goal deeper squats
I mean if you're gonna be an Olympic
lifter crossfitter yes you're gonna have
to learn how to squat go deeper if
you're gonna be a power lifter really
your hips just have to go barely under
below your median we'll talk about that
as we ain't going for it Wow what should
people do if they have bad knees that's
it that's a really good question so
there's this like crazy even fade the
cameras here there's a lot of really
weird information out there about how
squatting is bad for your knees and
that's just truly not the case it isn't
the case if you do a really poor squat
like Dee was just showing us if you're
coming forward that puts a lot of
sharing your knees that's gonna hurt
like hell if you're going to come back
and use your your hamstrings and your
butt to do the work that's going to put
a lot less tension or just on your knees
and if we're the more the lower you go
really in the squat the less attention
there is underneath because you're your
posterior chain is going to do the work
so it's not going to be bad for you
knees if you want a little extra cushion
and help grab some nice leaps five or
seven millimeters thick
the thicker they are the
more you're gonna be down at the bottom
these might help you or get some wraps
try those out but just because you have
bad knees and it really I would talk to
a doctor if they're really bad that
they're broken or some issue don't do
squats but it's there just source or if
you have some tendinitis like that's so
it's kind of stuff you might just have
to work um Julie OS what if people still
had a backache
if your spots are hurt in your back
you're doing they've been properly and
we're going to talk about that one
when we get to that so yes Jake when I
find when I do squats I feel that most
of my quads and hams how do I tack the
Blues better and talk about that I would
change the position on your back of the
bar on the back put a little lower sit
back a little further we're gonna get
there Jake good question okay yes
I don't know I know I don't think so I -
yeah I think you you need to lock them
out that frog Alice you I mean if your
hips are again depends on the sport like
I don't think that powerlifting that has
to be left out I think in general if
your hips are squared and straight then
you're good to go
yeah I don't I don't see why you would
need to lock them out in general like in
life Anthony for beginners is good
questions suggests high bar a low blow
bar spot for beginners I suggest low bar
for beginners and they'll tell you why
when we get there usually somebody gave
questions I can't even start my tutorial
how do we gauge my triceps Norman
sweating that's probably a troll
question good one I like it okay so I'm
gonna I'm gonna start talking things I'm
gonna like come back every couple
minutes stick to you guys I love all
your questions keep them coming and get
to them as best as I can okay um one
thing you can do here if you're just
starting out and you need help
figuring how to splice to pull the bench
up and I see you and then just watch to
the bench
good and then you stand back up so I
challenge some of you if you actually
sit for a little bit
good this is going to help you teach how
to push your butt back yeah
junky yeah this section really scary to
people that aren't used to using a using
their hips and their right intentions to
do a squat pushing your hips back is
going to help engage your glutes your
hamstrings if you do it this way and why
your since helps so this is what I
suggest instead of having the Box kind
of right up on your under your butt so
you just sort of mid I would push it
back a little bit to reach more this is
high lower good so if you see here
Dean's keeping a pretty good straight of
her back he's reaching back with his
hips he's keeping his weight I'm looking
I can see that he me his weight on his
heels he could pull his toes off the
ground if he wants
you don't necessarily have to do that
except I don't suggest another kind of
interesting tip with you stand up if
you're standing in your toes if you
actually squeeze your front toe that
turns your butt on weirdly enough so I
like to when I'm squatting get my
position squeeze my big toe in and then
I go so my butt's turned on I don't have
to think about it it just does it okay
another really great tool you can use to
help you squat a little better it's to
learn what to do with your knees and
hips if you use a slingshot hip circle
hashtag mark bell rules put this on this
can go right above your knees it's a
trick to using a hip circle is to keep
tension on the bands and that's gonna
help you come back down so a lot of
other issues I see again particularly
with women it just--there's when they
spot their knees cave in I'm sure a lot
of you guys see that and the amount of
ACL tears and the amount of issues with
knees and hips and lower back that women
have I think they'll have a lot to do
with this sort of I don't know for some
reason girls get taught to squat like
this
there's like a lot of other things that
I talk about a Q angle or just it's
generally hamstrung weakness and women
because we do a lot of stuff in their
quads so using a hip circle will help
you keep your knees out because you're
keeping tension on the bands and as you
come down and up we have to keep tension
on the band so i really suggest grabbing
one of these or just really any sort of
band in general that you can put over
your knees above your knees and then
keep tension on as you're doing your
squats this the slingshot is available
in the BB come store if you're
interested okay have an answer some
questions okay Mikey you're doing great
with the troll questions broke my feet
so Bernard asks I cannot keep steady on
the floor when I squat how do I address
it I think not to keep steady does that
mean that comes up and down if you are
coming up on your toes as you're coming
back it generally means that you I mean
I take away completely off the bar and I
would start from scratch that's
generally the advice they give to most
dudes that come into the gym you've all
seen him he comes in he puts 315 on the
bar and he does this
it's my squat
take them take the weight up put 135 on
it's not like who is a grub just do them
that work properly learn how to put your
feet learn how to use your butt and your
hands chance to do this why you're gonna
have much better I mean it's gonna take
more time if you do they're in the
movement properly moving well means that
you will eventually do more weight so I
would address it by honestly starting
over see what happens
I haven't seen you do your squat it's
hard for me to stay like one so what
your feet are to know where your feet
are actually doing start from scratch
gendering that helps
it's like restarting your computer just
turn it off and then turn it back up
okay how do I maintain yoke like
shoulders don't squat
shoulders
how do i presenters well ravi asks how
to prevent from falling off with
squatting asta grass so falling forward
i imagine if you're falling just don't
smile ass to grass there's no rules
anywhere that says you have to squat ass
to crest let's talk about proper depth
stuff your power lifter your depth is
once your increase gets below your knees
that it's to depth now a lot of the goal
really good power lifters is to flirt
with that line which is why you have
judges and which is why some power
lifters don't get a lift because really
the goal is the shortest amount of range
of motion if that makes sense
so you're trying to get as much weight
as you can and move that weight really
and this little shortest line is
possible if you are trying to be a
weight lifter dude you go there before
so a lot of times I hear weight lifting
if you need to clean or snatch you're
going to be in this position
waiting the front of your weight over
your head so if your if your
weightlifting really here into CrossFit
you're gonna have to come down a little
bit further but there's no right or
wrong answer and more importantly not a
lot not all of us are built to squat a
stress a lot of us have hip issues our
femurs might be too long or too short
we'll have knees that are built
differently ankle mobility might be an
issue for that so really your goal is to
squat as deep as you can that's
comfortable and safe for your ability
and your body body type that's what it
that's that's the ultimate goal today
and we'll talk about the button q2 a lot
of people and a lot of people do that
and that causes so if you're having
lower need to sit back up if you're
having lower back pain as you're
squatting that's probably the issue and
there's a lot of things that could be
going on I mean the over simplified
answer is that your ham shoes are tight
you can work in your mobility I I mean I
am a total believer in the ability
that's going to help you do you move
well it's going to help you add weight
but that's that's really a pretty
oversimplified answers lots of us have
our hip sockets or femur hook spin is
can be deep it can be shallow the bone
itself can be longer or shorter there's
a lot of things that can that can make
our our body's ability to move difficult
so I would just say if you can this is
what I would say film yourself doing a
squat from the side if you notice your
butt tucking under then play with that
depth come down only as far until your
butt starts it's a tuck and then just
come back up and work on your mobility
work on getting to a safe spot until you
can check yep until you can get deeper
and deeper and deeper in your squat as
you go really unless
like trying to be a pro weightlifter
there's no reason to do and ask graphs
why you can argue that there's more quad
or hip muscle whatever the word is
happening question Christopher twitch
what's his name again
frog - shotgun gypsy asks when he's
coming up for me to squat Hannah says
that one leg is more dominant than the
other there's an exercise to
strengthening that or to help that
imbalance that's actually super duper
common all of us have a dominant leg I
don't say do your unilateral training do
your Bulgarian split squat to do your
step ups do your lunges but don't do
your way to less weight on each side do
the same way on each side they're gonna
catch back up but yeah I really think
that unilateral training will help you
balance that up and keep doing your
squats again like your body will catch
up to itself it's just going to take a
lot of time
so good question okay I'm gonna see what
questions we have here
Larissa asks what to do for pain on the
hip flexors when squatting that's also
really common and again that's
a lot to do with how your villa that's a
lot to do with your mobility work on
your mobility make sure you're doing
your warm up properly if it's severe
pain that like you can't work through
just don't do them I mean the gym is
full of really cool equipment that
doesn't hurt you and again if your goal
is lifelong health or wellness
moving well don't do things that hurt
you if your goal is to be a pro water
then you're gonna have to deal with a
little bit of clean in order to get paid
to get to that level so again I would I
would work in every building that
doesn't seem to be helping go to an RT
or go to a chiropractor or go to a PT
and see if they can help you get there
otherwise it's just a little bit of
discomfort I would say it will probably
work itself out in a couple cents
you do question good question Joshua
asks what are the best shoes for squats
answer it depends weird not deep so a
lot of people really like these
weightlifting shoes now because they
have a lot of heel so if you find
yourself well here's the issue number
billion a lot of people have poor ankle
mobility which means that getting into
this position at all it's really hard on
their ankles so if you can get your feet
up your heels up a little bit that helps
it improves economically that helps
improve that position if you don't have
these shoes
nanos actually like Dean's what these
wearing have a little bit of heel on
them these are good
I would totally refrain from wearing
anything that has anything squishy in it
when you're squatting that's just bad
that's just like makes everything really
unstable and you can collapse in and out
and if you're having issues with your
feet is running that's another thing it
might be your shoes take them off just
wringer their feet where your chucks if
you need a little help if you're doing
squats I wouldn't do this on heavy
squats but if you're sort of like doing
lighter spots put a little pin on plate
under your heels and that can help you
yeah you are out from twitch socks or
bare feet also weren't just fine that
tends to work better you see a lot of
people doing the low bar squat and bare
feet are very like have nothing in their
shoes but jaylen let's talk about the
difference between a high bar and a
little bar spot while we're here you
guys asked somebody big questions sorry
I can't get to the wrong okay so he
needed to do a high bar spot first so
that is the the bar center lane right on
the top of his tracks
and that's going to mean that he's going
to be able to stay in his upper body to
be able to stay really upright as he
squats down and I'll sweep in the also
means I'm just identifying for
elimination
that also means that his ankle here and
here are much more severe in here than
it would be in above our spot so this is
squatting like this takes
in time to figure out how to do that's
why I don't suggest it for just a more
difficult to that stay down here it's
just a more difficult position as you
get into mobility lice but if you're
working on more athletic movements like
the snatch or clean and jerk I totally
suggest using the high bar squat if you
are a mobile person and it's grinding is
sort of pain free for you then why not
use that it's going to be a little bit
more clot dominant than a low bar spot
but I mean you're so definitely gonna
turn on your hamstrings and your in your
glutes
it's not gonna not use them and then a
low bar spot the bars actually going to
land a little shelf right here under so
you have like your traps you mean your
tractor a lot of muscle there's a little
area right here underneath and that you
can shove that bar underneath your head
is going to be more neutral and a low
bar spot and then like an organ always
with the earlier
are going to really far back in a little
bar slot nice Dean that's perfect and if
you'll notice he doesn't have to go as
deep in this one and these angles are
much less acute his shins are a little
bit they're much more vertical as we say
and then his upper body if the little
more leaves forward to me although you
can go ahead the balance portion is a
little bit more different you're not
used to pushing your hips back the
balance is a little bit more difficult
but in terms of how your body the amount
of the amount of like muscle fibers
whatever your body uses increases in the
squat and it's general knowledge that in
a low bar back so I can probably squeak
out an extra 5% as opposed to I had my
best foot that's why but I think that
entirely depends on who's doing the
squatting and how good they are at
sweating so as a beginner play with that
low bar back squat
yes you're going to be a little bit more
forward and you're gonna have to be
really good or you're just is to move
from squat say shut up I'm doing a low
bar my hips are back I'm doing what
I know I should be doing question
configuration hurts fighting Joshua from
twitch from the youtubes um yeah that's
strange that they're doing that I'm not
sure if you're squatting and as you're
squatting they do this um that's strange
and yes that would make squatting more
difficult cuz that would make it more
likely that your knees would come into
so that's really hard on your body they
have your feet coming and your knees go
out I don't even know that's rough so I
would really work on and if you need to
make this more severe than you would
normally you can go ahead and do that if
it's easier for you or more helpful to
heavier your total shoved out really
really wide in order to make it so they
don't come in do that but yeah I would
the pronation is not helping you at all
okay go back to the youtubes or I'm
sorry to the Facebook's Alex asks you
mentioned ACLs what do you recommend for
squats when someone has had ACL
reconstruction on their knees and it's
starting to squat all over again
I recommend
I recommend doing this light squats to a
ball until she gets her strength or her
he or she gets their strength back back
the again with the squat the most
important thing about a squat even said
I want to do is the movement pattern
itself move well before you throw away
on the park unless you're a crazy person
is just ultra strong um if you're if
someone has had an ACL injuries there's
a lot that could be happening but moving
on living properly understanding what
the knee should be doing which is
definitely not caving in which might
have been part of the issue in the first
place that they're out not necessarily
so and then there's a lot of weird stuff
about how your knees have to be like way
out when you squat that's not necessary
it's definitely true and your knees can
come in a little bit as long as they're
aligned with your toes that's pretty
good advice and you'll notice if you
have and you can watch even really
really good squatters come down all the
way
come in a little bit but they shove them
on the way out so that's going to happen
as long as you're aware of what where
your feet are or your knees are where
your hips are our shoulders are at all
times during the squat that's the
important part
the important part is moving what's up
ATL light spot grab a kettlebell grab
some dumbbells and work on the movement
pattern and stuff work on adding weight
putting weight on the back when he or
she is ready and feel strong okay good
job
[Applause]
okay sorry guys um which squats are best
for bowlegged people Yvonne
Maria Santana asks I mean it's far as a
high bar you loose a low bar spot I'm
like really start with your low bar
that's I think that's probably going to
be the best that's gonna help you really
it's hard to be bowlegged or that
affecting it all your squats if you're
pushing your hips back we're gonna low
bar it's better suggestion um yeah I
miss this but can you show us some of
effective hip mobility warm-ups yes we
can do that hang on you guys are welcome
thank you okay Pete Levesque is what
stance would you suggest for a 36 inch
inseam my knees travel past big toes
enough to do a wide stance why it stands
to be out at a 45 degrees and use my
adapters I have run on dreamers so I
totally totally feel your pain my
adaptors were somewhere like every time
that I do squats really because you're
tall like squatting is gonna be hard for
you like that's just that's what's gonna
suck about it um I
put the bar lower on my back again if I
were I don't know if you're doing that
and that will help sort of negate having
to be so so wide because they're gonna
come back a little bit further so if
you're super wide and you're coming down
that turns these on in here you come
back a little bit further that might
help you having long legs is just it's a
really long range of motion so it's
always going to be a little bit more
difficult for you not impossible but
again play with the bar where the bar is
on their back and play with pushing your
hips back go in that might help what if
you had that knees and that hurts you I
talked about this before
squatting isn't necessarily bad for your
knees and put on some nice leaves ask a
doctor Petey if you have an injury you
have an injury don't do it that's part
of athletics really is some some aches
and pains train through it if you want
to if it hurts you bad you don't have to
do spots there's no the squat dogs
aren't going to come smite you doesn't
it
um thank you guys
how can I dominate the Olympia and
Sheldon 18 James Murphy you ask that's a
good question
man I don't know the answer how much do
you weight girls
FSG seven
sorry guys you asked me so many good
questions I'm sure you look up or
straight Trevor Griffin good question
should I look up or straight forward
when squatting look straight forward for
some reason every football coach in
America teaches his kids to do this
worst advice ever
this is like the worst thing for your
neck your spine the point really in the
backs one particular thing is more part
of the low bar spot in particular is
more important
have a look maybe like sports scene for
any good I'm looking at the bottom of
the rib right here when I sweat and I'm
going to try to keep that head angle the
whole time yes it's weird
yes you can't look at yourself in the
mirror learn what your body's doing you
shouldn't have to look at yourself when
you do it keep your head as neutral as
possible I think you're doing a high bar
spot looking for it a little bit it's
probably going to be more likely don't
look up just don't there's nothing I
don't know why football do you asks my
right note gets numb Wow my right arm
gets numb what's the reason on the back
squat I imagine if summers shoulder
issue that's very strange I would go get
that checked out that shouldn't happen
in this mission if if if you're okay not
doing
spots of try from spotting the show this
is definitely more for your quadriceps
than it is for your up your boots and
hamstrings but your glutes and
hamstrings will turn on this this
position might help you a little bit
better if you if it hurts your shoulders
to have your arms back here so I would
suggest trying the front spot issue
difference one is going to be mobility
Dean obviously has some mobility issues
but this is going to help so if you
can't hold on to it we clean style of
just fold your arms and do it this way
same thing
Dean's got a really nice straight back
he's pushing back with his hips and he's
standing straight up his head is nice
and neutral or just facing forward yes
there you go
put feet on outer sides of heels to
prevent this make sure you mean Daniel
that's too exaggerated which gives me
which is better front or back spot
completely depends again on on your goal
you're not going to squat as much a week
under Francois as you would for a basket
but I totally suggest putting both of
them in your program if you want to
learn how to do it clean you have to
front spot is if you're at the bottom
here and you want to get up you're gonna
have to be even half different spot
because I'm essentially what a clean
this again a fun spot it's gonna put
more pressure I mean you're gonna use
your quads more but it doesn't mean
you're not going to use your hamstrings
and your clips what's unknown about
squats in general is actually it's a
really good before I don't want to say
workout or you're gonna be a check for
hugely so what are the functions of your
core is anti flexion and anti extension
and that your course purpose is really
to keep you upright so if you can have
weight on the front of your body right
here without your core you just like to
collapse forward same thing if it's on
your back
you'd either fall backwards or I've been
going over your back you could collapse
forward if you have a weak core
squatting heavy is going to be really
difficult for you and that's why you see
a lot of people when they're squatting
they come but first and then it's
generally a core issue it's a little
thing that we need to talk about that if
you're squatting again I told
just to have your friend or your buddy
like film you get your phone out film
you doing your squats and if you're
doing this strip the stripper squat or
you're doing this stop what you're doing
take the weight off the bar and like we
learned how to squat push that restart
button on the computer no one's watching
and nobody cares well that was a good
question how do you set up an overhead
squat so this is a really good question
so the purpose of an overhead squat I
think unless you are doing weightless
finger CrossFit is really a mobility
exercise so we need to do is he's gonna
put the bar on his back he's gonna put
his head in this where he would in this
match which is wider he's gonna push it
push press it up push jerking up and
he's gonna do this same kind of good
squat mush and he'll be working out he's
gonna push his hips back and he's gonna
try to keep the bar right over the top
of his head if you are new to doing this
good job Tina i 100% don't think you
should do anything other just don't
there's no reason to do that if you are
a hyper mobile person you can move your
hands closer in you can do it that way
but the same sort of rules applied in
overheads
it can be more difficult because your
mobility and most people your t-spine is
probably my type because you're used to
being forward on your computer all the
time being up and out and open it's
really hard to do same thing though you
want to keep your your chest high you
want to keep your butt back you just
spend this time you're huge ready to be
over your head
lightweight and less your mobile and you
know what you're doing and you can have
a strong back in court but that's a
really good question do you need to wear
the belt when you're doing squats by
diet that's a really good question too
in my so this is what a belt looks like
to me in those streaks athletes I would
say you do not put a belt on unless
you're going over 80% if you don't train
that way if you don't train based on a
percentage and you just do back squats
as part of your leg leg day I don't
think you need to know unless you're I
mean unless you're going for it one rep
max so you're three rep max and maybe
even your five rep max um let your core
do what it's supposed to do this and a
lot of people think that a belt is
actually to help your back which is true
but it helps your back because a vel
gives your abs something to press
against which can make it what's the
right word which increases the tension
that makes sense and can make swag
coming up a little bit easier but that's
the purpose of a belt it's not to for
some reason I don't know like put
pressure on your back it's actually
pushing it so you can push your stomach
forward which kid will leave pressure on
their back
it's appointment so a lot of the time we
don't see belts like this one kind of
where it's fatter in the backs and in
the front that's not necessarily what
you need to look for you look for
something that is the same length all
the way around and it's a Widow's okay
totally up to you if you back squat
often you'll know when you need to put
the belt on my general rule is over 80%
anything less than that you can handle
it without good question though okay
belt is knowing we got there should the
hips go down until 90 degrees or way
more down okay
depends on your I would say if at 90
degrees really is right where the
tension is worst on release a little bit
below that's actually going to help your
musculature turn on so you can actually
not have so much pressure on your knees
so no don't stop at 90 degrees go until
your hips your hip creases below your
knees that doesn't mean you have to be
down here you can still be right here I
can't see myself so this might be the
right spot okay a suppress what there's
really I mean if you can't if you
mobility prevents
if you want to put on some heavy heavy
weight you don't have to go after grass
there's no like no gots spots don't care
while God's just care that you care just
care that you're squatting will maygene
you why would you wear that all you'll
be okay
deadlift question mark you should
deadlift deadlifting is good good
question
we love you girls how to increase ankle
dorsiflexion okay so ankle mobility is a
really big deal for squatting friend
squatting if you would be an Olympic
weightlifter you're gonna need good
Saudis gonna do here is gonna lean
forward he's gonna put your chest with
me he's gonna try to crush himself he's
been jepty he's basically gonna try to
crush his me down
so she's stretching out his ankles
effort as I feel so this is actually got
really good mobility which is probably
why he goes his friends
so well that is great do that really any
sort of movement just even then
stretching your calves like this this
will do it but the point is to challenge
just like I don't know if you've ever
taken a really hardcore II don't good
class where they're like I don't know
something because it like - it feels
good
don't go further double by and then
there's something because you've got a
challenge to move me right so that's
what I do want to go for a hardcore yoga
class so you're gonna pull yourself into
whatever you're doing whatever stretch
you're doing try to do the part and then
change the position try to bend your
knee a little bit
pull yourself into it the point of
stretching for mobility purposes this is
a challenge to make it difficult and yes
there's yoga stretching and then there's
more hardcore and if you want better
mobility for your angles in particular
if you have to crush up and yeah hurts
but wait
she is asking really good questions
should you vary the position of your
feet toes out toes and feet out ok again
I don't know the research on this that
like you're gonna have any different
quad development depending on where your
feet are in your squat I honestly I I
don't know I think that's kind of silly
that if your work if you're trying to
like work different angles of your quads
doing squats with like your feet face
other ways like there's much more
efficient ways to do that and like I'm
not sure and if it's worth putting your
feet in a bad position to like turn on
your basses Niehaus it don't make sense
you can do it if you want to close it my
suggest is if you're playing with your
feet like do it for the purpose of a
good squat position not four o'clock
Bachman okay
[Music]
maybe teach what an isometric
contraction is might help clarify ome of
my spots work your core okay good
question
let's do that to make that a little bit
more applicable to squat so we'll talk
about breathing in general for squats
particularly if you have a heavy heavy
weight on the bar but even if not
there's a good way to breathe in the
squats my badness so we need steps up
he's gonna take one two steps three he's
gonna fix his feet that's fine he's
going to take a big breath in and he's
gonna push down in his belly like he's
pooping weirdly enough so you know push
in his belly he's going to hold that you
can breathe sorry he's actually gonna
hold that breath and if he had a belt on
here he would be pushing into that belt
he's gonna hold that breath as it comes
down and then there's way up you can let
it out holding that breath actually
keeps your core tighter it's going to
help you stabilize
so if you are our breathing the whole
time like if you're like it's much more
likely that you're going to have some
issues coming forward or like rumbling
forward if your core isn't contracted
that makes sense so the best way to keep
your core contracted by pushing outward
and then coming down hold your breath
and yeah they might get diseased their
speech becomes like lots of weight on
the bar if you are not used if you're
like even you're aware grab a partner if
you're doing really heavy squats have
them help you if you're if you get
lightheaded in the squat let's play with
your breathing but it's that's worth
doing if you look on a power different
platform if you're trying to get PR
other than that like if this happens if
you're just
that's up to five when you're getting
dizzy every time like let's chill up and
breathe don't forget to breathe
definitely breathe out on the way if you
can take a couple of rest and then go
again that makes sense but the point
I'll get to your question in this deck a
really good point is to not just hold
your breath
but contract' your stomach like you're
looping question good question mark from
YouTube does high reps and low weight
help with fat burning for squats the
answers okay so if you're if you're in
the business of losing weight the thing
you need to focus on is your nutrition
that's what matters what you do in the
gym is literally like a tiny portion of
the weight loss equation yes working out
is healthy everyone should do it you
need to move it doesn't matter if you
were in the gym if you're out hiking if
your skier or whatever you do movement
matters for weight loss matters most
doing in the kitchen so I know you don't
mean to like this miss your question
like it it doesn't matter you could do
either one squats if your your nutrition
is on track how do you exercise with
your slots really isn't gonna matter so
the answer is yes and um
do whatever you want with the squat eat
well wow you guys are asking some good
questions okay Gary okay here anything
will ask you about entrance should you
pause between reps or keep going until
you hit your rep total pause between
reps breathe there's no reason to do to
these squats especially if you have
weight on your back like what like why
can you show them what up non-breathing
weird
these are spots
there's truly in my mind like no reason
to do that this is how it should load
your sets
perfect they should look like that set
to it I mean unless I even like even
across that where you do weird like
heavy reps for for time you still don't
do speed squats you them quickly but
you're still focused on good form and
good breathing to keep your core
contracted so you don't crumble yourself
forward and you threw yourself that
makes sense
so take your time there's no doesn't
matter I have been lifting for thirty
plus years and you were very good at
explaining thank you so much Gary let's
see what else what's good mobility Gary
again Gary different Gary what's a good
mobility exercise for getting under the
bar for a low bar squats do you mean
like your back getting under it or your
shoulders that might be an issue
shoulder mobility is a huge problem
again working that work on those
overhead squats any stretching I really
like to do this for you
I like this and put however your friends
put weight not like to sit on you but
like a bit plate right here higher than
you think not down here but here and
then hang out there for a minute or two
just let that sink right in you can also
get you company them you can also do
even here and then come forward this is
more like pick peck stretchy but this is
definitely going to help you with if you
struggle like if this position in
general it's difficult for you if you're
way out here or you have to hold here
which I don't understand you need to
work on their mobility that's a question
I have for you why do people put their
hands weight high out here when they're
somebody really mean that okay when it
gets hard but my legs go a little bit
inside and it gets easier to get up Wow
I don't
is it better should I put less weight so
if your knees are collapsing that's
natural that's gonna happen so if you're
here I need to collapse a little bit and
you come up just make sure you're
pushing them out as you come up but it's
especially it's much more like like food
ivar squad because you're going down so
low that you either going to collapse it
if you're doing a little bar squat it's
probably less likely that your knees are
gonna collapse so that will happen
that's okay your goal your job is to
push your knees back out on the way up
you can also take weight up and use this
hashtag mark about mark fellow rules hip
circle keep that tension on your on your
you literally can't push get your knees
to push in if you're keeping tension on
the band the whole time okay shouldn't
the breath be held until the top of the
motion if if you want to I mean
sometimes it's really hard especially
brewing really having to hold your
breath the entire spot I mean for me in
general I usually hold my breath and
tell them about here and then I let now
because I get stuck for me personally in
a spa I get stuck here so to keep my
pressure keep everything going on in my
car I usually hold it hold my breath
alone and then up it depends I highly
suggest that you don't get down to the
bottom let it out and then try to
back up hold it till you're on the way
up but you don't have to fold it into
later at the top unless you get stuck
here which is unlikely I think once you
get to this position you can call me
come back good question
question from YouTube how do you build
great legs with a herniated disc Wow
okay probably don't do this take
advantage of the myriad exercise
machines happening I mean I think I'm
leg press might hurts your doctor
ask your doctor he or she what you
should do a really cool exercise that
I've seen is like you put your feet on
boxes and you put like a dip belt on and
you put weight and then you squat this
so it's just weight on your hips and you
squat this way and that takes that
relieves all the pressure from your back
it's all just hanging on your hips
that'd be a good way for you to go you
can do pull weight at your sides when
you're doing stuff yeah I would have
touched it up and just play with play
with like movements of the the weights
not on your back it might be a great way
to do it and you can still she feels
great quads at weights might just take a
little bit of extra work but not
impossible
good question
Sean asks is there a to work out my legs
today if I work them out two days ago
yes it is sure is when should I use I
like shoes I suggest using them whenever
you want to I've seen people use them
with a low bar squat I've seen people
use them with a high bar squat but if
you really if you feel more comfortable
if it's easier for you then put them on
there's no again the squat gods don't
care if you have all these shoes on or
not if you can afford them they can be
spending by more what hey I know I don't
think we're the only reason why not good
question
okay Noah says my arms out oh you
answered my question thank you because
he is very tied to my chest and shoulder
to plus carpal tunnel syndrome means
tendons are tight in your elbow so just
bending it is uncomfortable that I would
work on that chest chest circle okay
great matthew ray Goodson asks you
mentioned pushing your hips back to
initiate spots could you demonstrate the
difference between initiating with the
hips and tilting your hips AKA anterior
pelvic tilt common fog okay oh yeah we
we can do this again since we're yeah we
did this a little bit better grab the
bar okay so you gonna do first a high
bar spot this is a high bar spot can you
hang out a little bit this angle is
short acute acute but he's tall here his
head's facing forward this is what a
high bar spot ready should look like at
the bottom so a lot of people struggle
when they do a squat is a their hips
pull under that's called a butt wink
that were anterior pelvic tilt indeed
it's a hard time 30 Cal sir I can do it
so hundreds Lonnie and if it comes up
underneath like that that can be that
can cause a lot of pressure and your
lower back and your hips that can that
curb that's usually why people's if your
lower back hurts when you're spotting
that's generally because as you're
squatting your hips are tucking under
under or when you come down if that
happens I suggest you don't go that low
film yourself doing this glut watch or
your body's doing go down only as far
like let's say D need to stop here
that's fine you don't have to go up
stress do what's safe and good for your
body
at this moment and work on it on your
mobility and your strength and it
and then so then in between a show a
love our spot these traps here he's
gonna so it's going to be different
about this as his hips are going to come
back more toward me the heads gonna be a
little more neutral it's gonna feel
brave because you're gonna bend forward
a little bit more so these angles here
it must be cute and here it goes like
you are safe right here is different
these are bigger here that's put a
little bit smaller which is fine and
honestly to me if you're if you're a
noob and you have mobility issues this
is a much better choice for your squat
good job because it's just just easier
for your body to be in that position
again it turns your glutes and
hamstrings on arguably a little bit
better than a high bar squat and if you
practice it a lot you can probably get
eke out maybe 5% more weight wise by the
low bar so high that you can a high bar
spot but again that completely depends
on like who's doing this wedding if
you're a pro power lifter
yeah you're gonna clearly do a lot more
because that's the kind of squat that
you're gonna work with okay which
question
our Congress choose a good alternative
to lifting shoes well they're not
necessarily an alternative so I'm gonna
grab Dean's up teaching this has a heel
on it
the reason this helps is it just puts
because it's tall it puts your foot in a
more ergonomically helpful position to
put the rest of your body in a better
position to squat so the Congress is not
necessarily an alternative because the
Congress doesn't have a feel converse is
just flat so if you have mobility ankle
mobility issues this might be a better
option however there is the argument you
can make that if you have a mobility
issues the best way to combat those a
global reality issues is to squat in a
hard position for your body if you
continue to want a little shoes like
this and it hurts there's a good chance
it's going to get better over time
so alternative is the wrong word option
yes you can you can wear whatever you
wear bare feet you can wear socks you
can wear those gross shoes and just like
the toe shoes you wear those but yeah
that's just going to depend entirely on
if you if you truly are like that
concerned about your squat performance
then I would
invest in these if you're squatting
again just to be happy and healthy and
like move well than just like wear
whatever you have on except squishy
shoes shoes that are squishy that have
like squishy heels
do not wear those if you have good
issues and their ankles collapse in or
out that's probably because your shoes
don't have enough
they're just you squishing there's like
not enough can't be on the floor now
okay moving on good question which do
you recommend squat on the Smith machine
or normal don't use a Smith's machine
ever I hate that machine if you're on
the Smith machine that's gonna make your
body being a really particular position
and then this that doesn't necessarily
mean that you're that you're you've got
the bar will be over your center of mass
so a lot of times people are on a smith
machine yes you can do it the other way
if that's a fear for the city so this is
pretend deeds on a smith machine this is
how you have to squat which makes like
literally no sense in the real world and
it's again okay so this is just a
difference of opinion in terms of why
you exercise if you're working out for
bodybuilding only
and you're not concerned about how your
body moves in space then ensure use a
smith machine I don't think you're gonna
get as much muscle stimulation I don't
think you're gonna grow as much but if
it makes you feel better use it if you
are working out to move well to like run
away from zombies or fight them or like
climb a tree
I don't know play with your children use
a regular barbell okay that's my long
answer no again our spots okay for
people with flat feet or should they
wear their supports in their trainers
instead of barefoot yeah it doesn't
matter what I'm going to be you have as
long as your ankles you know as long as
you're not collapsing in on yourself and
night when you're squatting you're like
not like this you're going to be fine I
don't think the type of feet you have is
gonna change how you squat I mean
there's some argument I have the flat
fee money Tony on us is going pair a
little good enough for muscle growth yes
sure yes
again what is the purpose of your squats
if you're just doing it to grow a muscle
I think you could probably argue that
you would get more muscle stimulation
going a little bit lower and again
parallel it's actually harder on your
knees and going out a little bit below
parallel that's my response I am like an
anti parallel sweater as part of just
the kind of athlete I am but like I
think the world in general puts too much
pressure on their knees doing parallel
squats go a little bit you don't have to
go a crs again make sure your your hip
crease is a little bit below your knee
crease and you're good to go
that'll turn on your button your
hamstrings a little bit better okay but
see Vicky asked I'm skinny but with a
tummy when I lift weight I lose weight
so what can I do to lose the tummy but
not the body weight again it's going to
be nutrition it doesn't matter what
you're doing in the gym doesn't matter
if you're exercising keeping out of the
gym it's matters entirely in what you're
doing in the kitchen and body fats where
it ends up on your body if
design your genetics some of us carry it
here a lot of boys area right here
women usually carry in their button size
you have to be patient and just really
work on your nutrition whatever
it's been in an hour so how about any
last questions I'm sorry if I didn't get
if I didn't get everybody's questions
I'm sorry let's see last there's more
let's do a speed question questionable
one more dance question okay so this is
just a fun game we're going to do speed
questions you asked me questions and I
can only answer in like one or two words
or deep testing derivatives nutrition
fitness bodybuilding in CrossFit twelve
questions all the above ready you go
will this be available to watch yes come
back
do I like nachos hell yeah can you open
relays what's a good set and reps yes
you can over train here's here's a good
way to think about it if you constantly
this is not one right answer if you
constantly can't sleep at night because
your body hurts too bad I mean you're
overtraining that could happen that
happens me
how doesn't even once in a while if
that's a consistent thing Europe dream
[Music]
best one roofer squat is and here's why
with that sucker or you can do a little
monster box this way this way this way
if you're overweight slash Alicia do
strength team absolutely no reason
anyone should not lift weights your body
has this is not one right answer if your
body hot summer muscle your body has fit
basically burns more fat so build muscle
the building muscle is good for you it's
gonna help everything if you if you lift
weights we help your joints it's gonna
help your bones yeah there's no reason
not to be it might be difficult for you
to move well with extra weight so it
might be easier for you to get a little
bit of weight off by walking it's going
to be your nutrition 100% all the time
nutrition first walk unless you feel
comfortable I can move well you get a
little weight off and then to start
stretching but there's no reason you
should now if you feel about doing
[Music]
protein to vegan pretty good question if
it hurts your belly to acquaint bothers
your belly donate wait I like do you use
testosterone supplements personally no
yes it's pretty crazy
even steroids
should I wear my baseball cap backwards
to be more aerodynamic squatting yes
that helps for sure the gym can't see
your quads you're doing something yes
damn t10 DT 10 no spaces no spaces my
name is Cassie a Smith's Cassie Gaines
been training should I shave my beard
will help me in the gym
yeah I keep them I think here helps
increase testosterone
don't do
we're gonna have a stronger Goldeneye
let's see if that's about time under
tension that's hard to do with one word
time under tension is good it's good I
mean here's the thing again about
movement patterns if if you think doing
like quarter reps of things to keep your
muscle under tension the whole time
depending on the movement biceps curls
like do everyone but like to me doing a
movement
it's supposed to be done and doing it
well is more important than to me then
like how much vasodilation and pump I
get but that is a personal choice so you
do you boo boo scared to fall down on
the squat that's a super common fear
there are things you can do grab a buddy
take weight off and also learn how to
bail we can have a whole nother video
tutorial yeah baby we can show it yes
squats are what's are one of those
movements that use almost all of the
muscles in your body squats are also
great for women because they are it's a
bone loading exercise coaching women in
general have worked time with them and
efficiency and they get older so doing
squats is great yes do women men
so this is how you bail on the spot
she's going going I can't get up
that's all that's all you got to do you
just throw it off your back that's all
if you want to show again not scary it's
fine the gym my location
I would suggest don't do that unless you
have the bunker plates don't do minnow
place if you are smiling with middle
plates use the safety thingies bars
safety bars the earlier I work out
use those use a buddy just make yourself
safe okay we gotta wrap it up thank you
so much for coming to hang out with me
today we're gonna do more tutorials ask
any questions on Instagram came to
because a certified coach knows what
he's talking about - and we'll be back
let us know also if you want to add more
comments what other tutorials you would
like to see I saw some shoulder stuff
beginner course stuff tape we can
totally do that any other questions
please feel free to leave them on the
Facebook's I'll come in and answer them
so deep and then Instagram and thank you
guys all for how many guys see you later
being fit feels amazing you feel like
you can overcome anything in life
because you already have
you feel confident in yourself you have
nothing to worry about you're healthy
you're taking care of now you can take
on the world and go do what you need to
do
[Music]